To build a Knights of the Old Republic (KOTOR) clone using "vibe coding" (high-level prompting and AI-assisted generation), you should leverage your software engineering (SWE) background to maintain architectural integrity while the AI handles boilerplate and asset creation. 

1. Recommended Source Material (High-Lore Sci-Fi)
For a KOTOR-like experience, you need a world with established factions, moral ambiguity, and "ancient" mysteries. 
The Sun Eater (Christopher Ruocchio): Often described as "Dune meets The Name of the Wind," it features a galaxy-spanning empire, ancient alien ruins, and a protagonist who is both hero and monster.
Foundation (Isaac Asimov): The direct inspiration for Star Wars, focusing on the fall of a galactic empire and the use of "Psychohistory" to navigate the dark ages.
Red Rising (Pierce Brown): High-stakes caste-based politics, orbital combat, and a gritty rebellion story that mirrors the "companion-driven" recruitment of KOTOR.
The Culture (Iain M. Banks): A post-scarcity society with deep philosophical questions, diverse alien species, and specialized "Special Circumstances" agents (like Jedi/Sith). 

2. Tech Stack for AI-Assisted Development (2025)
As an SWE, you can use a modular stack that allows AI to "vibe" into specific components without losing control of the production-ready core. 
Game Engine: Unity 6 (2025) or Godot 4.4.
Why: Best-in-class AI integration (Unity Sentis/Muse) and extensive asset stores for "placeholder-to-final" workflows.
Vibe Coding IDE: Cursor or Windsurf.
Workflow: Use these as your primary drivers for "Composer" mode (vibe coding) to generate entire C# classes for inventory systems, dialogue managers, and state machines based on natural language prompts.
Dialogue & Quest Logic: Articy:draft or Ink.
Why: Scriptable dialogue trees that an LLM can easily populate with lore-accurate content from your chosen book series.
Asset Generation: Rosebud AI or Unity Muse.
Why: These allow you to "vibe" 3D models, textures, and even character animations into existence through prompting. 

3. Development Approach
Architecture First: Before "vibing," define your modules (e.g., CombatManager, DialogSystem, InventoryService). Use AI to generate a Design Document based on the book’s lore.
The "Vibe" Prototype: Use Rosebud AI or Blink.new to generate a playable 3D prototype room with movement and basic dialogue within hours.
Refine with SWE Rigor: Feed your architectural specs into Cursor. Ask it to "Implement a KOTOR-style turn-based combat system using the Command Pattern and State Machines".
Lore Injection: Feed PDFs or summaries of your chosen book series into a RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) pipeline. Use this to help the AI generate quest lines, item descriptions, and lore-consistent NPC dialogue.
Test Early: Leverage your SWE skills to have AI write unit tests for your generated systems immediately after they are "vibed" into existence. 


I want to unpack the features I really like from KOTOR: 1. turn-based combat 2. good power scaling where the beginning middle and endgame are super satisfying 3. change in light side dark side alignment based on conversations change gameplay (light and dark powers). 4. lots of different alien races with their own place in the lore 5. full voice acting is amazing. want an AI tool that can do similar 6. kotor 2 adding more quality of life and better graphics 7. cool places to explore, lots of great side quests. So, how to prioritize and set the stage for me to begin my vibe coding workflow? and consider also any other popular aspects I missed

To build a KOTOR clone in 2025 using "vibe coding," you should treat your AI tools as specialized team leads. As an SWE, your role is to architect the "connective tissue" while the AI generates the high-volume content (logic, voice, and assets).

1. Recommended Source Material (Rich Lore & Morality)
For a KOTOR-style "vibe," you need a setting with ancient history, competing factions, and metaphysical depth.
The Sun Eater (Christopher Ruocchio): Features a vast, decaying galactic empire, "Chantry" politics (similar to Jedi/Sith tension), and ancient alien ruins.
The Horus Heresy / Warhammer 40k: Offers deep, established lore with distinct "factions" and the clear moral conflict between the Imperium and Chaos.
Cradle Series (Will Wight): While technically fantasy, its "cultivation" system provides the perfect framework for satisfying power scaling from a weak initiate to a world-shaking power. 
2. Feature Prioritization & Workflow
Start with the "Core Loop" before expanding into "Lore" and "Polish." Use Cursor or Windsurf as your primary "vibe coding" environment to generate these systems via high-level prompts.

Priority
Feature
AI Tool / Strategy
1. Foundation
Turn-Based Combat
Prompt AI for a "Command-pattern based combat manager" with a queue system.
2. Mechanics
Alignment System
Implement a "Global State Manager" where dialogue tags adjust a MoralityScore float.
3. Content
Dialogue & Quests
Use Inworld AI or Gemini 1.5 Pro (via API) to generate branching narratives that check for alignment scores.
4. Immersion
Full Voice Acting
Use ElevenLabs for high-quality TTS and Vozo AI or NVIDIA Audio2Face for automated lip-syncing.
5. Polish
QoL & Graphics
Use Unity Muse or Promethean AI to rapidly "vibe" environment layouts and textures.

3. Vibe Coding Workflow for a SWE
Step 1: The Design Prompt: Use an LLM (Claude 3.5 Sonnet or GPT-4o) to "ingest" the book lore. Ask it to generate a Technical Design Document (TDD) for the combat and alignment systems based on that specific lore.
Step 2: Boilerplate "Vibing": In Cursor, prompt: "Create a Unity C# system for turn-based combat where units move on a grid. Include a 'Force-like' resource that scales with Level and Alignment.".
Step 3: Narrative Injection: Use Inworld AI to create NPC profiles with "memory" and "personalities" based on book characters. This allows for dynamic, lore-consistent dialogue that reacts to player choices.
Step 4: Automated Testing: Use Qodo (formerly CodiumAI) to generate unit tests for your AI-generated combat logic to ensure the "vibe" doesn't break the "math". 

4. Popular Aspects to Consider
Companion Influence: KOTOR 2's system where companions gain or lose respect for the player based on actions.
Interconnected Hub Worlds: Small, dense maps (like Taris or Nar Shaddaa) are easier for AI to generate compared to massive open worlds.
Item Crafting/Upgrading: A simple workbench system that uses "scrap" or "crystals" found in the world to modify power scaling. 

To begin development of your KOTOR-style clone using vibe coding in 2025, you need to bridge the gap between abstract "vibes" and concrete technical architecture. While our discussion provides a strong conceptual foundation, an LLM requires a structured "Context Cache" or Technical Design Document (TDD) to produce maintainable, production-ready code without "drifting" into logical inconsistencies.

1. Crucial Missing Context for Initial Prompting
Before you prompt the LLM to write the first line of code, you must define these architectural "anchors":
The Math of Power Scaling: Define your "Ruleset." KOTOR was famously based on a modified d20 system (D&D 3.0). Tell the LLM if you want a similar d20-based math system (rolls, modifiers, saving throws) or a different cultivation-style progression (e.g., from Cradle).
Data Structures for Alignment: How does morality interact with the code? You need a defined AlignmentController that doesn't just track a score, but acts as a decorator or modifier for specific abilities.
The "Vertical Slice" Scope: Don't ask for a "game." Ask for a TurnQueue system and a DialogTree manager that can read JSON or Ink files.

2. High-Level Prompting Strategy (The "Vibe" Script)
As a SWE, you should prompt the LLM as if it is your Lead Architect. Here is how to frame the initial prompt to set the stage for your workflow:


Prompt to the LLM:

"I am a Senior SWE building a spiritual successor to KOTOR using [Unity/Godot]. We are building a high-lore RPG based on [Chosen Book Series].
Your Role: You are my Lead Architect. We will use a 'vibe coding' workflow where I provide high-level mechanical requirements and you generate clean, modular C# code following the Command and Observer patterns.
The Context:
Combat: Turn-based, utilizing a TurnQueue and d20-style roll system for resolution.
Alignment: A MoralitySystem that tracks Light/Dark scores and injects modifiers into a PowerService to unlock/lock abilities.
Scaling: A progression curve that scales base stats and resource pools (e.g., 'Force points') logarithmically.
Narrative: Support for branching dialogue that checks Alignmentand Skills (e.g., Persuade).
Current Task: Do not write the game yet. Instead, generate a Markdown-based Technical Roadmap that outlines the class hierarchy for these systems. Ensure the architecture is decoupled so I can swap out the 3D 'vibe' assets later without breaking the core logic."



3. Essential 2025 Tooling for the Workflow
Context Management: Use tools like gitingest or repo2txt to package your documentation into a single text file. This ensures the LLM sees the "whole project" rather than just isolated snippets.
Documentation-First: Maintain a CLAUDE.mdor SYSTEM_RULES.md in your root directory. This file should contain your naming conventions, error-handling strategies, and architectural pillars for the AI to reference in every chat.
Prototyping: Use Rosebud AI or Unity Museto rapidly generate the initial 3D "vibes" (environments/characters) so you have something to hook your AI-generated code into immediately.

i want to go with Sun Eater! What power system and morality is there, is there an anaolgy? what tailored gameplay or world building elements could come into play? and unrelatedly how would I handle cutscenes? some conditional logic to trigger a video or something? sometimes cutscenes also use the gaming engine too

The Sun Eater (by Christopher Ruocchio) is a perfect choice for a Knights of the Old Republic(KOTOR) clone because it is essentially a "Dune-inflected" space opera with deep philosophical roots. 

1. Power System: The "High Technology as Magic" Analogy
In The Sun Eater, there is no direct "Force," but there is a clear analogy through advanced, often misunderstood technology and biology.
The Analogy: KOTOR’s Force is replaced by Chantry-proscribed technology and transhumanist augmentations.
Power System: Characters like the Palatines(noble elite) are genetically engineered for superior strength, speed, and near-immortality. Other "powers" come from Tavrosi brain-computer sorcery or ancient, forbidden "High Technology".
Satisfying Progression: Early-game you might use standard kinetic firearms or blades; late-game you transition to high-matter swords (energy blades) and neural-link combat systems that mimic "Force-like" speed and precognition. 

2. Morality: Faith, Reason, and Humanism
Unlike the binary Light/Dark Side, The Sun Eateruses a more complex moral spectrum focused on Humanity vs. Transhumanism. 
The Alignment Scale:
Humanist (Light Side Analogy): Preserving the "natural" human form, adhering to the Chantry’s religious laws, and valuing individual life.
Transhumanist (Dark Side Analogy): Sacrificing humanity for power, body-modifying via "Extrasolarian" tech, or viewing humans as experiments.
Gameplay Impact: High "Humanist" alignment might grant you support from the Sollan Empire and religious buffs, while high "Transhumanist" scores allow for radical cybernetic/genetic upgrades that change your physical appearance and combat stats. 

3. Tailored World-Building Elements
Alien Races: Instead of Wookiees and Rodians, you have the Cielcin (xenocidal invaders), the Extrasolarans (radically evolved humans), and the Lothrians (techno-communists).
The Chantry: This organization acts as the "Jedi Council" figure, but with a darker, more inquisitorial edge, enforcing a ban on AI and certain technologies. 

4. Handling Cutscenes in 2025
Modern "vibe coding" workflows allow for a hybrid approach to cutscenes using In-Enginesequences for immersion and AI-generated Video for epic scope.
In-Engine Cutscenes (The "Standard"):
How: Use your engine’s sequencer (e.g., Unity Timeline or Godot AnimationPlayer).
Logic: Triggered by BoxColliders (on-enter) or QuestState completion.
Pros: Reflects current player gear and appearance.
AI Video Cutscenes (The "Epic"):
How: Use tools like Runway Gen-3 or Luma Dream Machine to generate 5-10 second cinematic clips of space battles or alien vistas that the game engine can't render easily.
Implementation: Play these as full-screen video files (FMVs) during travel between planets or major story transitions.
Conditional Triggering:
Use a State Machine in your code.
Example Logic: if (PlayerMorality < -50 && BossDefeated) { PlayVideo("DarkEnding.mp4"); } else { TriggerInEngineSequence("LightEnding_Timeline"); } 

Summary for your LLM Prompt

"We are building a Sun Eater RPG. The power system is based on Palatine genetics and forbidden technology. The morality system tracks Humanism vs. Transhumanism. We will use In-Engine sequences for dialogue and AI-generated FMVs for galactic-scale cinematics. Set up a C# CutsceneManager that can toggle between these two based on QuestFlag inputs."

for the plot i want to focus on a particular part of one of the books that would be the most fun lore and best gameplay leading up to a final boss and some open-world-like choices (like choosing what planet to go to next, with side quests and a main plot on each planet

To capture the best of Sun Eater’s lore and KOTOR’s "planet-hopping" gameplay, the ideal narrative focus is Book 2: Howling Dark. This section of the story shifts from a slow-burn origin to a high-stakes, multi-world mystery that mirrors the search for the Star Maps in Knights of the Old Republic.

1. The Plot: The Search for the Extrasolarians
Your game should focus on Hadrian’s quest to find the legendary "Extrasolarians"—radically modified humans living beyond the Empire's reach—to broker peace with the alien Cielcin. 
The Final Boss: Syriani Dorayaica, the Cielcin Prophet-King, or a high-ranking Chantry Inquisitor hunting you for your "technological heresies".
Open-World Planets:
Emesh: A gritty urban world where you start, dealing with gladiators and street-level politics.
Vorgossos: A mysterious, lawless city in the dark of space, ruled by the "Mother of Monsters" and her mutated court. This is your "Nar Shaddaa".
Forum: The Imperial capital, full of high-society intrigue and ancient architectural grandeur.
Jadd: A world of warrior-princes and desert landscapes, providing a distinct cultural shift and unique companion recruitment opportunities. 

2. Tailored World-Building & Gameplay
The "Metaphysical" System: Use the Quietand The Absolute as your Force equivalent. As Hadrian gains the ability to "see across realities," this can be a late-game power that reveals hidden paths or manipulates time in turn-based combat.
The "Inquisitor" Morality: Your choices shouldn't just be "nice vs. mean." They should be Loyalist (Chantry) vs. Heretic (Humanist). Supporting the Chantry gives you Imperial backing but limits your power; being a Heretic allows for forbidden tech (AI/Genetics) but makes you a fugitive. 

3. Vibe Coding Implementation: The "Cutscene Trigger"
As a SWE, you can prompt the LLM to handle cutscenes using a State-Driven Observer Pattern.
Frame this to your LLM:

"I need a CutsceneController in C#. It must listen for specific GameEventtypes (e.g., OnPlanetArrival, OnBossPhaseTransition).
Conditional Logic: The script should check the PlayerMoralityscore and ActiveQuest state to decide which cutscene to play.
Hybrid Rendering: If useFMV is true, trigger a 2D video player for cinematic space travel. If false, trigger an in-engine Timeline asset to show the current character models and gear.
Vibe Coding Goal: I want to be able to just type TriggerCutscene("Landing_Sequence") and have the system resolve the correct visual based on my current world."

4. Why this works for KOTOR fans
Satisfying Power Scaling: Start as a "man out of time" on Emesh and end as a Palatine-tier warrior capable of taking on the Cielcin.
Companions: Focus on the Red Company, providing a diverse crew of soldiers and scholars who react to your alignment changes.
Deep Lore: The Sun Eater wiki and index of worlds provide thousands of years of pre-established history to feed into your AI’s RAG pipeline. 

i also kinda want to make an rpg platform where i could do all kinds of games, not just sci fi but maybe anime following the same kotor-like gameplay. how could i set this up for genericization

To build a generic RPG platform for both sci-fi (Sun Eater) and anime settings, you must pivot from "coding a game" to "architecting a data-driven engine." By decoupling your Core RPG Logic (math, turns, dialogue) from Genre Data(magic vs. tech, Palatines vs. ninjas), you can use vibe coding to rapidly swap skins and lore. 

1. The Core Architecture (The "Engine")
Use a Data-Driven Design where your scripts don't care about the setting—they only care about numbers and tags. 
The Power System (Genericized): Instead of "Force Powers" or "Chakra," create an AbilityService that executes generic AbilityData objects.
Sci-Fi Skin: Ability name is "Kinetic Shield," costs "Energy," and requires "Palatine Tier 2."
Anime Skin: Ability name is "Fireball," costs "Mana," and requires "Level 10 Mage."
The Morality System: Use a generic AlignmentManager that tracks two opposing floats (e.g., ValueA and ValueB). In Sun Eater, label these Humanism vs. Transhumanism; in an anime RPG, label them Honor vs. Chaos. 

2. Implementation Strategy for a SWE
As an engineer, your "vibe coding" should focus on building the Content Ingestion Pipelinefirst. 
Scriptable Objects (Unity/Godot): Use these to store all your genre-specific data. They are "designer-friendly," allowing you to tweak scaling or swap names in real-time during play mode without recompiling.
JSON/RAG Injection: Use an LLM to generate massive JSON files for quests and item stats based on different source materials. Your engine simply reads the "Current_Genre.json" file at runtime.
Composition over Inheritance: Use an Entity-Component-System (ECS) approach. Instead of a SciFiPlayer class, have a Player entity with a CombatComponent, a DialogueComponent, and a GenreVisualsComponent. 

3. Vibe Coding Workflow for the Platform
Frame your next prompt to the LLM to establish this generic foundation:


Prompt to the LLM:

"I want to build a Multi-Genre RPG Framework in [Unity/Godot]. We will use a Data-Oriented approach so that the engine is genre-agnostic.
Architectural Requirements:
Data-Driven Abilities: Design a C# Ability ScriptableObject that contains variables for cost, damageType, visualEffectPrefab, and requiredAlignment.
Generic Alignment: Create an AlignmentController that tracks a generic AxisValue (-100 to 100). The UI will display labels based on a GenreConfig file (e.g., 'Light/Dark' for Star Wars, 'Humanist/Transhumanist' for Sun Eater).
The 'Skin' Manager: Implement a system that swaps 3D asset bundles (models, environment shaders) based on a selected GenreProfile.
Goal: I want to be able to 'vibe code' a new game just by providing a new JSON data set and a folder of assets, without touching the core combat or quest code."



4. Popular RPG Aspects You Missed
Dynamic Music Transitions: KOTOR used music to signal shifts in mood (Combat vs. Exploration). Ensure your framework has an AudioDirector that crossfades based on the GameState.
Companion Approval: Beyond just morality, KOTOR 2 tracked individual companion "Influence." Add an InfluenceDictionary to your generic NPC class to track player relationships independently of the global alignment.
Inventory Sets: A modular inventory that handles different equipment slots (e.g., "Main Hand" can be a laser sword or an enchanted staff depending on the genre). 

To build this 2025 "vibe-coding" platform as a solo SWE, your costs fall into three buckets: Code Intelligence (The Brains), Asset Generation (The Body), and Infrastructure (The Foundation).
Since it is late 2025, you are paying for tokensand inference rather than just software licenses.

Payment Options
The costs for this project are divided into three categories: Code Intelligence, Asset Generation, and Infrastructure. Payments are typically for tokens and inference, not software licenses. 

1. Code Intelligence: ($40–$100/mo) 
Cursor / Windsurf (Pro Plans): $20/mo. This provides unlimited "small" edits and sufficient "premium" requests.
API Usage: $20–$80/mo. An API key is needed for heavy architectural tasks. Consider Claude 3.5 Sonnet or Gemini 1.5 Pro.
Recommendation: Begin with Cursor Pro at $20. Scale to API pay-as-you-go if needed. 

2. Narrative & World Assets: ($60–$150/mo)
This includes costs for voice acting and asset creation.
ElevenLabs (Voice): $22/mo (Starter/Creator).
Rosebud AI / Unity Muse: $30/mo. For 3D models and textures.
Runway Gen-3 / Luma (Cutscenes): $30/mo. For cinematic videos.
Inworld AI (NPCs): Free to $20/mo. For interactive NPCs.

3. Engine & Infrastructure: (Free to Start)
Unity / Godot: Free.
GitHub/GitLab: Free.
Cloud Hosting (Optional): $5–$10/mo. For web-based platforms. 



Payment Plans
To create a playable prototype (Vertical Slice):

Tier
Monthly Cost
Features
"Lean"
~$50
Cursor Pro + ElevenLabs + Midjourney/Muse. More manual work is required.
"Vibe-Heavy"
~$120
Cursor Pro + API Budget + ElevenLabs Creator + Unity Muse + Runway. AI handles most tasks.
Professional
$250+
High-tier API access, high-quality voice clones, and professional 3D asset generation.

Recommendation
The $50–$70/mo range is a suitable starting point. Use Cursor Pro for C# architecture and ElevenLabs for voice acting. Use free asset stores, and consider Unity Muse or Rosebud for specific needs.
Next Steps: Begin with Cursor and ElevenLabs.